In reinforcement learning,
the agent generates
its own training data by
interacting with the world.
The agent must learn
the consequences of
his own actions through
trial and error,
rather than being told
the correct action.
In this first module,
we will study this evaluative
aspect of reinforcement learning.
We will focus on the problem
of decision-making in
a simplified setting
called bandits.
In this video, we will
formalize the problem
of decision-making
under uncertainty
using k-armed bandits,
and we will use
this bandit problem to
describe fundamental concepts
and reinforcement learning,
such as rewards,
timesteps, and values.
Imagine a medical trial where
a doctor wants to measure
the effect of three
different treatments.
Whenever patient comes
into the office,
the doctor prescribes
a treatment at random.
The doctor then
monitors the patient
and observes any changes
to their health.
After a while,
the doctor notices that
one treatment seems to be
working better than the others.
The doctor must now decide
between sticking with
the best-performing treatment or
continuing with
the randomized study.
If the doctor only
prescribes one treatment,
then they can no longer
collect data on the other two.
Perhaps one of the other
treatments is actually better,
it only appears
worse due to chance.
If the other two
treatments are worse,
then continuing the study risk
the health of the other patients.
This medical trial
exemplifies decision-making
under uncertainty.
The medical trial example is
a case of the k-armed
bandit problem.
In the k-armed bandit problem,
we have a decision-maker
or agent,
who chooses between
k different actions,
and receives a reward based
on the action he chooses.
In the medical trial,
the role of the agent
is played by a doctor.
The doctor has to choose
between three different actions,
to prescribe the blue,
red, or yellow treatment.
Each treatment is an action.
Choosing that treatment
yields some unknown reward.
Finally, the welfare
of the patient after
the treatment is the reward
that the doctor receives.
For the doctor to decide
which action is best,
we must define the value
of taking each action.
We call these values the action
values or the action
value function.
We can make this definition more
precise through the language
of probability.
We define the value of
selecting an action as
the expected reward we receive
when taking bad action.
By the way, if you haven't
seen the dot equal symbol,
it simply means is defined as.
So we can read this as q star of
a is defined as
the expectation of R_t,
given we selected action A,
for each possible
action one through
k. This conditional expectation
is defined as a sum over
all possible rewards.
Inside the sum, we
have multiplied
the possible reward by
the probability of
observing that reward.
This could be extended to
the continuous reward case by
switching the summation
to an integral.
The goal of the agent is to
maximize the expected reward.
If the agent selects
the action that has
the highest value,
it achieves that goal.
We call this procedure
the argmax,
or the argument which
maximizes our function q star.
To understand q star better,
let's go back to
our medical trial example.
Previously, we said
rewards could be
the patient's welfare
after receiving treatment.
But for this example, let's use
something which is
easier to measure,
perhaps the change in
blood pressure after
receiving the treatment.
Each treatment may yield rewards
following different
probability distributions.
Perhaps one is Bernoulli,
one is binomial,
and one is uniform.
Q star is the mean of the
distributions for each action.
You can easily calculate
the expected value of
the Bernoulli distribution.
Simply multiply
the probability of
failure by the
reward when failed,
plus the probability of success,
times reward when succeeded.
It's just basic statistics.
There are many examples of
making decisions
under uncertainty.
For instance,
the medical trial example
that we have already discussed.
Other examples include
content recommendations,
like what movie to watch,
or what song to listen to.
Even ordering food
at a restaurant,
you can't be certain
what you alike,
but you make
the best choice you can.
Why are we considering
the bandit problem first?
Because it is best to
consider issues and
algorithm design choices in
the simplest settings
where they arise.
For instance, maximizing reward
and estimating values are
important subproblems in
both bandits and
reinforce learning.
In this video, we introduced
you to the bandit problem.
We showed how decision-making
under uncertainty
can be formalized by
the k-armed bandit problem.
In bandits, we already see
the fundamental ideas
behind reinforce learning;
actions, rewards, and
the value function.